---
title: "Pwnable.kr: A journey through the land of binary exploitation." 
date: 2021-02-15 00:25:00 -0600
categories: [WriteUps, pwnable.kr]
tags: [binexp]     # TAG names should always be lowercase
---

In these series of blog posts, I will attempt to solve most levels of pwnable.kr as part of my plan to learn more about Binary analysis and exploitation.

Pwnable.kr has 4 levels of difficulties: Toddler's Bottle, Rookis, Grotesque and Hacker's Secret.
This first post will contain the first 5 levels (Toddler's Bottle levels): fd, collision, bof, flag and passcode.

Here goes nothing !

## fd

The Toddler's Bottle levels are meant to make you comfortable with the basics of C,ELF,Linux ... and fd is a good start.

{% highlight c %}
 #include <stdio.h>
 #include <stdlib.h>
 #include <string.h>
 char buf[32];
 int main(int argc, char* argv[], char* envp[]){
        if(argc<2){
                printf("pass argv[1] a number\n");
                return 0;
        }
        int fd = atoi( argv[1] ) - 0x1234;
        int len = 0;
        len = read(fd, buf, 32);
        if(!strcmp("LETMEWIN\n", buf)){
                printf("good job :)\n");
                system("/bin/cat flag");
                exit(0);
        }
        printf("learn about Linux file IO\n");
        return 0;

 }
{% endhighlight %}
We are provided with the source code and the binary. The program basically takes a number as an argument then converts it to an int (from char) and subtracts 0x1234 (4660). 
What does it do with the argument after that ? It serves as the first argument to read().
But what does that mean ? Let's look at the manual of read().

```
read - read from a file descriptor

ssize_t read(int fd, void *buf, size_t count);

read() attempts to read up to count bytes from file descriptor 'fd' into the buffer starting at buf.
```

What is a file descriptor though ?  In C, when handling files or input/output resources we use three integers that represent input, output and errors.

- stdin (standard input) file descriptor is 0
- stdout (standard output) is 1
- stderr (standard error) is 2

So what we want to do is make fd 0 (stdin) so we can give some input and pass LETMEWIN to solve the challenge. Let's try to pass 4660 as the argument then LETMEPASS and see what happens.


```
fd@pwnable:~$ ./fd 4660
LETMEWIN
***************************
```

We get flag !!
